Structure
=========

- [Introduction](#introduction)
    * [Configure context formats](#configure-context-formats)
    * [Aliases for formatter class names](#aliases-for-formatter-class-names)


Introduction
============

Each saved file in context may have own formatted versions.
It is useful, e.g. when you need output any thumbnail or watermarked version of file instead of origin.
Formats can be such what you wish, and not only work with images,
e.g. it may be PDF file preview image, or compressed video file.

To convert origin file and generate formatted versions used `formatters`.
You may create any formatters as you want,
but this plugin already has some useful formatters.

Configure context formats
-------------------------

For configuring which formats your context have you should change `formats` setting.

This setting should be an array. Where keys are the names of formats,
e.g. `thumbnail` or `preview`, or anything that you want.
Values are configs of formatter that will be used for generating this formatted version of file.

```
Note! If you using default name generators from this plugin then format names
should be a valid file names.
```

Formatter config should have one of the followings formats:

- string: At the first the name of formatter class should be in the string,
it must be separated by colon from properties if need.
You may also use [aliases](#aliases-for-formatter-class-names) instead of.
The spaces between properties, values and colon will be ignored.
All properties must be in `snake_style`.
If property has not value then boolean `true` will be passed as value of this property.

```php
    'format-name' => 'Some\Formatter\ClassName: property1 = value1, property2 = value2, bool_property3',
```

- array: The first item of array must be a name of formatter class.
You may also use [aliases](#aliases-for-formatter-class-names) instead of.
Other key-values pairs are used as config of this formatter.
All keys must be in `snake_style`.

```php
    'format-name' => ['Some\Formatter\ClassName', 'property1' => 'value1', 'property2' => 'value2', 'bool_property3' => true],
```

- Closure: This closure will be resolved by laravel's container,
so you may inject here any component that you want including the followings:

    * ```php Bicycle\FilesManager\Contracts\FileSource $source```
         this source may be used to read file contents or stream
    * ```php Bicycle\FilesManager\Contracts\Storage $storage```
         this param may be used to have access to storage and context
    * ```php Bicycle\FilesManager\Formatters\InlineFormatter``` $formatter
         the instance of current inline formatter, it have some useful methods

The closure should return one of the followings:

    * `null`: it means the formatter cannot convert source file
    * `strnig` full path to temporary file: this file will be saved as formatted
        version of file. Then file will be removed automatically,
        so it must be exactly temp file. You may use helpful method 
        ```php $formatter->generateNewTempFilename($extension = null) ```
        for generating path that you can use for saving the file.

Aliases for formatter class names
---------------------------------

All formatters provided by this plugin has aliases,
so you not need write a long full name of formatter class.

- `from` is alias of `Bicycle\FilesManager\Formatters\FromFormatter`
- `inline` is alias of `Bicycle\FilesManager\Formatters\InlineFormatter`
- `image/fit` is alias of `Bicycle\FilesManager\Formatters\FitFormatter`
- `image/resize` is alias of `Bicycle\FilesManager\Formatters\ResizeFormatter`
- `image/thumb` is alias of `Bicycle\FilesManager\Formatters\ThumbFormatter`

If you define your own formatter you can set alias for it too.
You also may change the name of class for any existed alias.
For this you need add the folowing line in `boot()` method
of your `App\Providers\AppServiceProvider` class:

```php
app('filesmanager')->formats()->alias('your-alias', 'Your\Formatter\ClassName');
```
