Structure
=========

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Settings](#settings)
    * [Disk](#disk)
    * [Generate formats on save](#generate-formats-on-save)
    * [Name generator](#name-generator)


Introduction
============

Each context has 2 storages: `main_storage` and `temp_storage`.

Main storage is used for storing permanent files,
files that was validated and finally saved on disk.

Temp storage is used for storing temporary files.
It is files that was saved between requests, but has not been attached to any model yet.
Files in temp storage will be removed by garbage collector by a timeout.

This storages has the same set of settings.
List of them you may see in [Settings section](#settings) below.
So in docs below you may see settings for `main_storage`,
but all of them are available for `temp_storage` too.


Settings
========

Disk
----

Storage uses [laravel's filesystem](https://laravel.com/docs/5.3/filesystem).
So you may configure which disk the storage must use in `disk` setting.

By default [public](https://laravel.com/docs/5.3/filesystem#the-public-disk) is used.
But you may use any disk as you want.

*Note!* It is recommended (and is default) to use local disk for `temp_storage` for performance reasons.

Generate formats on save
------------------------

Storage may generate all formatted files for origin on fly when origin file is saving.
For this you should set `generate_formats_on_save` setting to true:

```php
    // ...
    `main_storage` => [
        // ...
        'generate_formats_on_save' => true, // true is default value
        // ...
    ],
    // ...
```

You also may specify exact list of formats that must be generate on saving:

```php
    // ...
    `main_storage` => [
        // ...
        'generate_formats_on_save' => ['thumbnail', 'small'],
        // ...
    ],
    // ...
```

And disable any generating on saving:

```php
    // ...
    `main_storage` => [
        // ...
        'generate_formats_on_save' => false,
        // ...
    ],
    // ...
```

*Note!* It is recommended (and is default) to set this setting to `false`
for `temp_storage`. Because it is likely not need all formats for you temp files.
On the other hand neede formats will be generated on fly if you context has
`Bicycle\FilesManager\FileNotFound\GenerateOnFlyHandler` handler
in `file_not_found_handlers` setting.

Name generator
--------------

Name generator is used for generating file names which will be used for new files.

Main storage uses [Random Name Generator](./06.name-generators.md#random-name-generator) by default.
Temp storage uses [Origin Name Generator](./06.name-generators.md#origin-name-generator) by default.

Read more about available generators and its settings [here](./06.name-generators.md).
