Structure
=========

- [Introduction](#introduction)
    * [Configure](#configure)
- [Existing Name Generators](#existing-name-generators)
    * [Random Name Generator](#random-name-generator)
    * [Origin Name Generator](#origin-name-generator)
    * [Slug Name Generator](#slug-name-generator)
    * [Fixed Name Generator](#origin-name-generator)
- [Custom Name Generator](#custom-name-generator)


Introduction
============

For generating file paths for new files the name generators are used.

So the logic in which folder structure your uploaded files are stored,
and the logic how your uploaded files are named,
concentrated in `name_generator` that your storage uses.

Configure
---------

To configure which name generator must be used,
you may change `name_generator` of your
`main_storage` or `temp_storage` resp.

The config may have the followings formats:
- string, the name of generator class
- array, without 'class' property, then [Random Generator](#random-name-generator) will be used
- array, with 'class' property

Examples:

```php
'name_generator' => \Bicycle\FilesManager\File\NameGenerators\OriginNameGenerator::class,

'name_generator' => ['length' => 8, 'file_subdir_length' => 16], // RandomNameGenerator will be used

'name_generator' => [
    'class' => \Bicycle\FilesManager\File\NameGenerators\OriginNameGenerator::class,
    'length' => 8,
    'file_subdir_length' => 16,
],

```

Existing Name Generators
========================

Random Name Generator
---------------------

The `\Bicycle\FilesManager\File\NameGenerators\RandomNameGenerator`
generates new random names for files.

So path for origin file has the following schema:

` {global_prefix}/{context_name}/{common_subdir}/{random_file_subdir}/{random_filename}.{extension}`

Where:

- `global_prefix`: may be configured through `global_prefix` setting,
Default is `uploads` for main storages and `temp` for temporary storages.

- `context_name`: normalized name of the appropriate context

- `common_subdir`: a number with prefixed '0' chars, e.g. `0035`.
Default length is 4, but may be configured through setting `common_subdir_length`.
Before generating new subdir, the generator checks whether one of existing subdirs may be used.
It means whether `max_common_subdir_files_count`, which is 1000 by default, is not exceed.

- `random_file_subdir`: a set of random chars.
Default length is 16, but may be configured through setting `file_subdir_length`.

- `random_filename`: a set of random chars.
Default length is 8, but may be configured through setting `length`.

- `extension`: the generator will try to use extension from source file.
But if source extension consists of any special or invalid chars,
then file will be saved without any extension.



The full list of available settings and its defaults you may see below:

```php
'name_generator' => [
    'class' => \Bicycle\FilesManager\File\NameGenerators\RandomNameGenerator::class,

    // Global prefix, default is `uploads` for main storages and `temp` for temporary storages.
    'global_prefix' => null,

    // The length of new generated random filenames
    'length' => 8,

    // The length of common subdir, it is meaning numerical subdirs (e.g.`0035`)
    'common_subdir_length' => 4,

    // Max count of subdirs in one common subdir
    'max_common_subdir_files_count' => 1000,

    // The length of new generated subdirectories, it is meaning subdir that stores the file
    'file_subdir_length' => 16,

    // Suffix that will be added to subdirectory that stores formatted versions of file
    'format_subdir_suffix' => '-format',

    // Regular expression that used to validate extension.
    // Note, this expression limits extension length too.
    'extension_regular' => '/^[a-z0-9_\-]{1,16}$/i',

    // Extensions that will be disallowed in principle
    // If file has one of these extensions than file without extension will be saved.
    // Comparing with these extensions will be case insensitive.
    'disallowed_extensions' => [
        'htaccess',
        'php',
        'php3',
        'php4',
        'php5',
        'pl',
        'py',
        'jsp',
        'asp',
        'shtml',
        'sh',
        'cgi',
        'inc',
        'phtml',
    ],

    // Special chars of the file system.
    // Filenames and extensions are disallowed if them contains at least one of this chars
    'special_chars' => '\'\\/?<>:*|"',

    // All files and subdirs names will be lowerized before saving.
    // It may be useful when project developers are working on defferent OS (linux/windows)
    'lowerize' => true,
],
```

Origin Name Generator
---------------------

The `\Bicycle\FilesManager\File\NameGenerators\OriginNameGenerator`
tries generate name same as origin name of uploaded file.

So path for origin file has the following schema:

` {global_prefix}/{context_name}/{common_subdir}/{random_file_subdir}/{origin_filename}.{extension}`

All parts of the path are the same as in [Random Name Generator](#random-name-generator), excepting:

`origin_filename`: basename of uploaded file.
But if origin name contains any special char, then random filename will be generated.

`OriginNameGenerator` extends [RandomNameGenerator](#random-name-generator),
so it has the same properties as the [RandomNameGenerator](#random-name-generator).

But `OriginNameGenerator` has additional property:

- `max_length`: `integer`|`null`. Max allowed length of origin file name.
By default is null, that is meaning the value will be calculated automatically,
so that relative path may be stored in database with `VARCHAR(255)` type.

Slug Name Generator
-------------------

The `\Bicycle\FilesManager\File\NameGenerators\SlugNameGenerator`
is the same as [Origin Name Generator](#origin-name-generator),
but it slugify origin file names to ASCII.

`SlugNameGenerator` extends [OriginNameGenerator](#origin-name-generator),
so it has the same properties as the [OriginNameGenerator](#origin-name-generator).

But `SlugNameGenerator` has additional property:

- `separator`: string, default is `-`. Separator between words.

Fixed Name Generator
--------------------

The `\Bicycle\FilesManager\File\NameGenerators\FixedNameGenerator`
generates fixed basename for any file.

So path for origin file has the following schema:

` {global_prefix}/{context_name}/{common_subdir}/{random_file_subdir}/{fixed_basename}.{extension}`

All parts of the path are the same as in [Random Name Generator](#random-name-generator), excepting:

`fixed_basename`: fixed string, default is `file`, may be configured through `basename` setting.

`FixedNameGenerator` has the same settings like in [Random Name Generator](#random-name-generator), excepting:

- `FixedNameGenerator` has not `length` property
- `FixedNameGenerator` has `basename` setting, default is `file`.


Custom Name Generator
=====================

You may write your own name generator.
For it you need to create your generator class and add
`Bicycle\FilesManager\Contracts\FileNameGenerator` interface in `implements` section.

The instance of your generator class will be resolved by laravel's container,
so you may inject here any needed services and objects.

When you implemented all required by the interface methods, you may use it.
For this simply specify class name by the `class` key in `name_generator` config:

```php
    // ...
    'name_generator' => 'Custom\Name\Generator\ClassName',

    // OR

    'name_generator' => [
        'class' => 'Custom\Name\Generator\ClassName',
        'property1' => 'value1',
        'property2' => 'value2'
    ],
    // ...
```

